
44 页


TCP is a connection-oriented, end-to-end reliable protocol designed to
fit into a layered hierarchy of protocols which support multi-network
applications. The TCP provides for reliable inter-process
communication between pairs of processes in host computers attached to
distinct but interconnected computer communication networks.


In principle, the TCP should be able to operate above a
wide spectrum of communication systems ranging from hard-wired
connections to packet-switched or circuit-switched networks.

### 实现一个可靠连接需要做的事情

the primary purpose of the TCP is to provide reliable,
securable logical circuit or connection service between pairs of
processes. To provide this service on top of a less reliable internet
communication system requires facilities in the following areas:

* Basic Data Transfer
* Reliability
* Flow Control
* Multiplexing
* Connections
* Precedence and Security

### Basic Data Transfer

* push flag

A sending TCP is allowed to collect data from the sending user and to
send that data in segments at its own convenience, until the push
function is signaled, then it must send all unsent data. When a
receiving TCP sees the PUSH flag, it must not wait for more data from
the sending TCP before passing the data to the receiving process.

There is no necessary relationship between push functions and segment
boundaries. The data in any particular segment may be the result of a
single SEND call, in whole or part, or of multiple SEND calls.
The purpose of push function and the PUSH flag is to push data through
from the sending user to the receiving user. It does not provide a
record service.

There is a coupling between the push function and the use of buffers
of data that cross the TCP/user interface. Each time a PUSH flag is
associated with data placed into the receiving user’s buffer, the
buffer is returned to the user for processing even if the buffer is
not filled. If data arrives that fills the user’s buffer before a
PUSH is seen, the data is passed to the user in buffer size units.

### Reliability

The TCP must recover from data that is damaged, lost, duplicated, or
delivered out of order by the internet communication system.

common

* handshake

send

* sequence number
* retransmitted
* window manage

receiver

* checksum
* ack
* sack
* window manage

When the TCP transmits a segment containing data, it puts a copy on
a retransmission queue and starts a timer; when the acknowledgment
for that data is received, the segment is deleted from the queue.
If the acknowledgment is not received before the timer runs out,
the segment is retransmitted.

An acknowledgment by TCP does not guarantee that the data has been
delivered to the end user, but only that the receiving TCP has taken
the responsibility to do so.

TCP does not attempt to define what the user specifically does upon
being notified of pending urgent data, but the general notion is
that the receiving process will take action to process the urgent
data quickly.

sender to avoid sending small segments by waiting until the window
is large enough before sending data.

One strategy would be to send an acknowledgment when a small segment
arrives (with out updating the window information)

send another acknowledgment with new window information when the window is larger

The suggestion here is that the TCP implementations need to
actively attempt to combine small window allocations into larger
windows, since the mechanisms for managing the window tend to lead
to many small windows in the simplest minded implementations.


### Flow Control

保证多条连接的带宽均匀

* window
*

### Multiplexing

socket 四元组

### Connections

TCPs initialize and maintain certain status information for
each data stream, including sockets, sequence numbers, and
window sizes, is called a connection.

Each connection is uniquely specified by a pair of sockets
identifying its two sides.

The connection becomes "established" when sequence numbers
have been synchronized in both directions.

the receiving TCP doesn’t deliver the data to the user until
it is clear the data is valid (i.e., the data must be buffered
at the receiver until the connection reaches the ESTABLISHED state)

The three-way handshake reduces the possibility of false connections.
It is the implementation of a trade-off between memory and messages
to provide information for this checking.

The principle reason for the three-way handshake is to prevent old
duplicate connection initiations from causing confusion.

### Precedence and Security

Not all TCP modules will necessarily function in
a multilevel secure environment;

## TCP 所处网络的包交换技术

Hosts are computers attached to a network, and from the communication
network’s point of view, are the sources and destinations of packets.
Processes are viewed as the active elements in host computers (in
accordance with the fairly common definition of a process as a program
in execution). Even terminals and files or other I/O devices are
viewed as communicating with each other through the use of processes.
Thus, all communication is viewed as inter-process communication.

At a gateway between networks, the internet datagram is "unwrapped"
from its local packet and examined to determine through which network
the internet datagram should travel next. The internet datagram is
then "wrapped" in a local packet suitable to the next network and
routed to the next gateway, or to the final destination.

A gateway is permitted to break up an internet datagram into smaller
internet datagram fragments if this is necessary for transmission
through the next network. To do this, the gateway produces a set of
internet datagrams; each carrying a fragment. Fragments may be
further broken into smaller fragments at subsequent gateways. The
internet datagram fragment format is designed so that the destination
internet module can reassemble fragments into internet datagrams.

A destination internet module unwraps the segment from the datagram
(after reassembling the datagram, if necessary) and passes it to the
destination TCP.

### TCP Header Format

The checksum field is the 16 bit one’s complement of the one’s
complement sum of all 16 bit words in the header and text. If a
segment contains an odd number of header and text octets to be
checksummed, the last octet is padded on the right with zeros to
form a 16 bit word for checksum purposes. The pad is not
transmitted as part of the segment. While computing the checksum,
the checksum field itself is replaced with zeros.

The TCP header padding is used to ensure that the TCP header ends
and data begins on a 32 bit boundary.

### TCP state machine

LISTEN : represents waiting for a connection request from any remote TCP and port.

SYN-SENT : represents waiting for a matching connection request after having sent a connection request

SYN-RECEIVED : represents waiting for a confirming connection request acknowledgment after having both received and sent a connection request.

ESTABLISHED : represents an open connection, data received can be delivered to the user. The normal state for the data transfer phase of the connection.

FIN-WAIT-1 : 在没有收到对端的 FIN 之前, 主动首先发送了一个 FIN 给对端之后.

FIN-WAIT-2 : 之前处于 FIN-WAIT-1, 收到(对端发送到本端) FIN 的确认之后

TIME-WAIT : 在没有收到对端的 FIN 之前主动发送了 FIN 的一方在确认收到对端 FIN, 并应答对端的 ACK 之后.
(可用不包含 ACK 的对端的 FIN 之后) 防止丢包导致对端没有收到 ACK 之前, 等待处理对端的
FIN 重传. 如果在 2MSL 对端没有重传 FIN 表明对端收到了 ACK 安全关闭连接. 如果
不等待 2MSL, 如果 ACK 在网络中丢掉, 对端重传 FIN, 此时就不能处理该包, 对端就
会一直处于 LAST-ACK(是否有超时机制?)

CLOSE-WAIT : 收到对端 FIN, 发送 ACK 之后. (由于本地可能数据还没有发送完成, 因此, 不能立即发送 FIN)

LAST-ACK : 本地数据已经发送完成, 之前处于 CLOSE-WAIT, 并且发送了 FIN 给对端.

CLOSING : 之前处于 FIN-WAIT-1, 本机发送的 FIN 的 ACK 收到之前, 收到了对端的 FIN 包.

CLOSED : 发送 FIN 后收到对端的 ACK(被动关闭端).

synchronized states : ESTABLISHED, FIN-WAIT-1, FIN-WAIT-2, CLOSE-WAIT, CLOSING, LAST-ACK, TIME-WAIT

non-synchronized state : LISTEN SYN-SENT, SYN-RECEIVED

注意点:

处于 Listen 的 socket 可用主动发送数据与远程建立连接, 此时处于 SYN-SENT, 而对端如果处于 SYN-SENT, 收到该 SYN 后, 会进入 SYN-RECEIVED.

因此, 建立连接, 如果双方同时发送 SYN. 那么, 同时进入 SYN_SENT 状态.


## 状态机的错误处理

### 考虑的情况

1. 丢包
2. 进程宕掉
3. 包还在传输过程中

在状态机的任何一个地方都可能出现上述情况

### 两端同时发送 SYN

        TCP A                                               TCP B
    1. CLOSED                                               CLOSED
    2. SYN-SENT     -->     <SEQ=100><CTL=SYN>
    3. SYN-RECEIVED <-- <SEQ=300><CTL=SYN>              <-- SYN-SENT
    4.                  ... <SEQ=100><CTL=SYN>          --> SYN-RECEIVED
    5. SYN-RECEIVED --> <SEQ=100><ACK=301><CTL=SYN,ACK> ...
    6. ESTABLISHED  <-- <SEQ=300><ACK=101><CTL=SYN,ACK> <-- SYN-RECEIVED
    7.              ... <SEQ=101><ACK=301><CTL=ACK>     --> ESTABLISHED

t1: s2 发送 SYN 处于 SYN-SENT
t2: s1 处于 LISTEN, 发送 SYN 之后处于 SYN-SENT
t3: s2 收到 s1 的 SYN 发送 SYN+ACK, 进入 SYN-RECEIVED
t4: s1 收到 s2 的 SYN 发送 SYN+ACK, 进入 SYN-RECEIVED
t5: s1 重复收到 s2 的 SYN+ACK 如何处理?
t6: s2 重复收到 s1 的 SYN+ACK 如何处理?

通过 reset 来解决


* Ellipsis (...) : a segment which is still in the network (delayed)
* "XXX" : a segment which is lost or rejected

        TCP A                                                   TCP B
    1. CLOSED                                                   LISTEN
    2. SYN-SENT     --> <SEQ=100><CTL=SYN> ...
    3. (duplicate)  ... <SEQ=90><CTL=SYN>                   --> SYN-RECEIVED
    4. SYN-SENT     <-- <SEQ=300><ACK=91><CTL=SYN,ACK>      <-- SYN-RECEIVED
    5. SYN-SENT     --> <SEQ=91><CTL=RST>                   --> LISTEN
    6.              ... <SEQ=100><CTL=SYN>                  --> SYN-RECEIVED
    7. SYN-SENT     <-- <SEQ=400><ACK=101><CTL=SYN,ACK>     <-- SYN-RECEIVED
    8. ESTABLISHED  --> <SEQ=101><ACK=401><CTL=ACK>         --> ESTABLISHED

其中 3 时重复的旧连接的 SYN 报文.


        TCP A                                                   TCP B
    1. CLOSED                                                   LISTEN
    2. SYN-SENT     --> <SEQ=100><CTL=SYN> ...
    3. (duplicate)  ... <SEQ=90><CTL=SYN>                   --> SYN-RECEIVED
    4. SYN-SENT     <-- <SEQ=300><ACK=91><CTL=SYN,ACK>      <-- SYN-RECEIVED
    5.              ... <SEQ=100><CTL=SYN>                  --> SYN-RECEIVED
    6. SYN-SENT     --> <SEQ=91><CTL=RST>                   --> LISTEN
    6. LISTEN       <-- <SEQ=300><CTL=RST>                  --> SYN-RECEIVED


如果处于 non-synchronized status, 收到 reset, 发送中断连接给用户.


        TCP A                                                   TCP B
    1. CRASH                                                   (send 300,receive 100)
    2. CLOSED
    3. SYN-SENT     --> <SEQ=400><CTL=SYN>
    4. (!!)         <-- <SEQ=300><ACK=100><CTL=ACK>         <-- ESTABLISHED
    5. SYN-SENT     --> <SEQ=100><CTL=RST>                  --> (Abort!!)
    6. SYN-SENT                                                 CLOSED
    7. SYN-SENT     --> <SEQ=400><CTL=SYN>                  -->


        TCP A                                                       TCP B
    1. CRASH                                                     (send 300,receive 100)
    2. (??)         <-- <SEQ=300><ACK=100><DATA=10><CTL=ACK> <-- ESTABLISHED
    3.              --> <SEQ=100><CTL=RST>                   --> (ABORT!!)


        TCP A                                                   TCP B
    1. LISTEN                                                   LISTEN
    2.                  ... <SEQ=Z><CTL=SYN>                --> SYN-RECEIVED
    3. (??)         <-- <SEQ=X><ACK=Z+1><CTL=SYN,ACK>       <-- SYN-RECEIVED
    4.              --> <SEQ=Z+1><CTL=RST>                  --> (return to LISTEN!)
    5. LISTEN                                                   LISTEN


详细参考 page30, 33

### 两端同时发送 FIN, 同时进入 TIME-WAIT

t1: s1 发 FIN, 进入 FIN-WAIT-1
t2: s2 发 FIN, 进入 FIN-WAIT-1
t3: s2 收到 s1 的 FIN, 发送 ACK 进入 CLOSING
t4: s1 收到 s2 的 FIN,  发送 ACK 进入 CLOSING
t5: s1 收到 s2 的 ACK, 进入 TIME-WAIT
t6: s2 收到 s2 的 ACK, 进入 TIME-WAIT


## Reset 连接

### 发送 reset

reset (RST) must be sent whenever a segment arrives
which apparently is not intended for the current connection. A reset
must not be sent if it is not clear that this is the case.

1. A 连接 B, 但是 B 没有 A 的任何信息(除了 A 连接 B 监听的端口).
2. 如果当前处于 non-synchronized 状态, 收到对方的 ack 序列号不是期望的, 如果收到的已经发送的 SYN 没有应答或者应答了但是序列号大于期望的序列号, 就发送的 Reset
3. 任何一方如果处于 synchronized 状态, 收到对方的 ack 序列号不是期望的, 立即发送一个 SEQ 为空, ACK 为下一个期望收的的序列号的报文, 并保持当前的状态

其中:

* 1 典型的情况是, 1) A 开始 SYN 连接 B. 但是 B 并没有监听对应的端口. 2) A 包含 ACK, 但是 B 没有与 A 对应的连接信息.
* 如果当前处于 non-synchronized 状态, 收到对方的 SYN 应答, 但 ACK 不是期望的, ACK 序列号低于期望的序列号, 并不发送 reset 继续.


### 处理接受的 reset

#### reset 的有效性

In all states except SYN-SENT, all reset (RST) segments are validated
by checking their SEQ-fields. A reset is valid if its sequence number
is in the window. In the SYN-SENT state (a RST received in response
to an initial SYN), the RST is acceptable if the ACK field
acknowledges the SYN.

#### 收到 reset 的状态变化

The receiver of a RST first validates it, then changes state. If the
receiver was in the LISTEN state, it ignores it. If the receiver was
in SYN-RECEIVED state and had previously been in the LISTEN state,
then the receiver returns to the LISTEN state, otherwise the receiver
aborts the connection and goes to the CLOSED state. If the receiver
was in any other state, it aborts the connection and advises the user
and goes to the CLOSED state.

### 关闭连接

1. 本地发送 FIN
2. 本地接受到 FIN
3. 两端同时发送 FIN 关闭

        TCP A                                                       TCP B
    1. ESTABLISHED                                              ESTABLISHED
        (Close)                                                  (Close)
    2. FIN-WAIT-1   --> <SEQ=100><ACK=300><CTL=FIN,ACK>  ...    FIN-WAIT-1
                    <-- <SEQ=300><ACK=100><CTL=FIN,ACK>  <--
                    ... <SEQ=100><ACK=300><CTL=FIN,ACK>  -->
    3. CLOSING      --> <SEQ=101><ACK=301><CTL=ACK>      ...    CLOSING
                    <-- <SEQ=301><ACK=101><CTL=ACK>      <--
                    ... <SEQ=101><ACK=301><CTL=ACK>      -->
    4. TIME-WAIT                                                TIME-WAIT
        (2 MSL)                                                 (2 MSL)
        CLOSED                                                  CLOSED

once in the ESTABLISHED state all segments must carry current acknowledgment information.


### 重传



    SRTT = ( ALPHA * SRTT ) + ((1-ALPHA) * RTT)

    RTO = min[UBOUND,max[LBOUND,(BETA*SRTT)]]

UBOUND : an upper bound on the timeout
LBOUND : is a lower bound on the timeout
ALPHA  : a smoothing factor
BETA   : a delay variance factor

When the receiving TCP has a zero window and a segment arrives it must
still send an acknowledgment showing its next expected sequence number
and current window (zero).

## 术语

* packet switching technology
* socket
* connection
* isn(initial sequence number)
* SRTT(Smoothed Round Trip Time)
* RTO(retransmission timeout)

* SND.UNA : send unacknowledged
* SND.NXT : send next
* SND.WND : send window
* SND.UP  : send urgent pointer
* SND.WL1 : segment sequence number used for last window update
* SND.WL2 : segment acknowledgment number used for last window update
* ISS     : initial send sequence number

* RCV.NXT : receive next
* RCV.WND : receive window
* RCV.UP  : receive urgent pointer
* IRS     : initial receive sequence number

              1    2            3       4
    ----------|----------|----------|----------
        SND.UNA     SND.NXT     SND.UNA+SND.WND

1. old sequence numbers which have been acknowledged
2. sequence numbers of unacknowledged data
3. sequence numbers allowed for new data transmission
4. future sequence numbers which are not yet allowed

        1           2           3
    ----------|----------|----------
            RCV.NXT     RCV.NXT+RCV.WND

1. old sequence numbers which have been acknowledged
2. sequence numbers allowed for new reception
3. future sequence numbers which are not yet allowed


* SEG.SEQ - segment sequence number
* SEG.ACK - segment acknowledgment number
* SEG.LEN - segment length
* SEG.WND - segment window
* SEG.UP  - segment urgent pointer
* SEG.PRC - segment precedence value

















## 没看懂

TCP also provides a means to communicate to the receiver of data that
at some point further along in the data stream than the receiver is
currently reading there is urgent data.

